This is an explanation of a few parts of React that are essential to its usage. The thing about React that separates it from other web apps is that it breaks down the app into smaller parts called components that can be thrown into a main index file wherever they are needed, and taken out if needed as well. The use of these components also depend on the idea of state which establishes variables that are central to the app itself, and the components affect the state constantly. Components also make use of props, which influence the state. Components also use functions native to React that are called Life Cycle methods, these functions run depending on where the component is being used and when. 

Prop: Props are, at first glance, the options of a component, and they are contained within said component. However, they affect state. The component is going to affect the state, but before it does that it still pulls data from the state at the moment and performs whatever action it does, saves that to it's props, and then afterwards affects the state. This is assuming we are working with a controlled component. 

State: State is a default value or values that initializes when a component mounts. So if you have a main app component that renders on page load, the state could be a part of that component to account for the various elements on that page. State mutates over time, and it is important to use child components to keep the state immutable so as to prevent these changes from happening wildly. The app needs the state to keep track of what is happening, such as the value of input fields and other conditions that will affect the behavior of the app. 

Component Life Cycle: The idea here is that you can set the component to perform certain tasks when the component is rendered or mounted into the app, or even if it is waiting to be mounted. These are used with the native functions componentWillMount and componentDidMount. The functions themselves act like a normal function, in that the script written within them will execture in order when the function is called. The take away from this is that sometimes a developer will make an app where certain events happen only when something changes on the page. An example would be when the page itself changes or a form is rendered. The form itself could be a component with life cycle methods attached to it. When the form is rendered you could have one method activate, perhaps as an AJAX call to update data in the database attached or when a new form is rendered the AJAX call can go through upon the component mounting, thus populating the form with data. 